[develop]: Add SRW-SD chapter to SRW App docs (#1128)
ufs-community/ufs-srweather-app: doc/UsersGuide/BuildingRunningTesting/SRW-SD.rst

.. _srw-sd:

=====================================
SRW Smoke & Dust (SRW-SD) Features
=====================================

.. attention::

   SRW-SD capabilities are a new SRW App feature supported on Hera and Orion/Hercules; on other systems, users can expect only limited support.

> This chapter provides instructions for running a sample six-hour forecast for July 22, 2019 at 0z using SRW Smoke & Dust (SRW-SD) features. These features have been merged into an SRW App feature branch from a UFS WM Rapid Refresh Forecast System (RRFS) production branch. This forecast uses RAP data for :term:`ICs` and :term:`LBCs`, the ``RRFS_CONUS_3km`` predefined grid, and the ``FV3_HRRR_gf`` physics suite. This physics suite is similar to the NOAA operational HRRR v4 suite (Dowell et al., 2022), with the addition of the Grell-Freitas deep convective parameterization. `Scientific documentation for the HRRR_gf suite <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/GMTB/v7.0.0/sci_doc/_h_r_r_r_gf_page.html>`_ and `technical documentation <https://ccpp-techdoc.readthedocs.io/en/v7.0.0/>`_ are available with the CCPP v7.0.0 release but may differ slightly from the version available in the SRW App.

Reviewer: Should this be simple, rather than sample?

```suggestion
This chapter provides instructions for running a simple, example six-hour forecast for July 22, 2019 at 0z using SRW Smoke & Dust (SRW-SD) features. These features have been merged into an SRW App feature branch from a UFS WM Rapid Refresh Forecast System (RRFS) production branch. This forecast uses RAP data for :term:`ICs` and :term:`LBCs`, the ``RRFS_CONUS_3km`` predefined grid, and the ``FV3_HRRR_gf`` physics suite. This physics suite is similar to the NOAA operational HRRR v4 suite (Dowell et al., 2022), with the addition of the Grell-Freitas deep convective parameterization. `Scientific documentation for the HRRR_gf suite <https://dtcenter.ucar.edu/GMTB/v7.0.0/sci_doc/_h_r_r_r_gf_page.html>`_ and `technical documentation <https://ccpp-techdoc.readthedocs.io/en/v7.0.0/>`_ are available with the CCPP v7.0.0 release but may differ slightly from the version available in the SRW App.
```

   * - ``ush/smoke_dust_interp_tools.py``
     - Regridding utilities using `esmpy <https://earthsystemmodeling.org/esmpy/>`_ that interpolate data from the RAVE observational grid to the RRFS grid.

Generate the Workflow
------------------------

Generate the workflow:

.. code-block:: console

   ./generate_FV3LAM_wflow.py

Run the Workflow
------------------

If ``USE_CRON_TO_RELAUNCH`` is set to true in ``config.yaml`` (see :numref:`Section %s <srw-sd-config>`), the workflow will run automatically. If it was set to false, users must submit the workflow manually from the experiment directory:

.. code-block:: console

   cd ../../expt_dirs/smoke_dust_conus3km
   ./launch_FV3LAM_wflow.sh

Repeat the launch command regularly until a SUCCESS or FAILURE message appears on the terminal window. 

Users may check experiment status from the experiment directory with either of the following commands: 

.. code-block:: console

   # Check the experiment status (for cron jobs)
   rocotostat -w FV3LAM_wflow.xml -d FV3LAM_wflow.db -v 10

   # Check the experiment status and relaunch the workflow (for manual jobs)
   ./launch_FV3LAM_wflow.sh; tail -n 40 log.launch_FV3LAM_wflow

> To see a description of each of the AQM workflow tasks, see :numref:`Section %s <AQM-more-tasks>`.

Author: @BenKoziol-NOAA Should I remove this line? It's a little confusing that it references AQM rather than SD.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I agree that should be removed. Thanks

   201907220600    upp_post_mem000_f002    18989107    SUCCEEDED            0       1      287.0
   201907220600    upp_post_mem000_f003    18989108    SUCCEEDED            0       1      284.0
   201907220600    upp_post_mem000_f004    18989109    SUCCEEDED            0       1      289.0
   201907220600    upp_post_mem000_f005    18989110    SUCCEEDED            0       1      294.0
   201907220600    upp_post_mem000_f006    18989111    SUCCEEDED            0       1      294.0

If something goes wrong, users can check the log files, which are located by default in ``nco_dirs/test_smoke_dust/com/output/logs/20190722``.

WE2E Test for SRW-SD
=======================

There is an SRW-SD Workflow End-to-End (WE2E) test in the SRW App repository that tests the configuration described in this chapter. To run the experiment as a WE2E tests, first build the app for SRW-SD:

.. code-block:: console

  ./app_build.sh -p=<machine>

Add the WE2E test for SRW-SD to the list file:

.. code-block:: console

   cd /path/to/ufs-srweather-app/tests/WE2E
   echo "smoke_dust_grid_RRFS_CONUS_3km_suite_HRRR_gf" >> my_tests.txt

Run the WE2E test:

.. code-block:: console

>    $ ./run_WE2E_tests.py -t my_tests.txt -m hera -a gsd-fv3 -q

Author: @MichaelLueken @BenKoziol-NOAA Should I remove this section of the docs? I don't think it works in `main_aqm`, and I'm not sure if the test in `develop` is comparable. When I run in the `main_aqm` branch, I get this: 
```
[Gillian.Petro@hfe05 WE2E]$ ./run_WE2E_tests.py -t my_tests.txt -m hera -a epic -q
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/scratch2/NAGAPE/epic/Gillian.Petro/ufs-srweather-app-sd/tests/WE2E/./run_WE2E_tests.py", line 13, in <module>
    from generate_FV3LAM_wflow import generate_FV3LAM_wflow
ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'generate_FV3LAM_wflow'
```

Reviewer: @gspetro-NOAA Yes, you should remove this section.  As you noted, only the `parm/config.aqm.yaml` and `parm/config.smoke_dust.yaml` sample configuration files will run in `main_aqm`.
